Zomato Data Analysis
Analyze restaurant and customer trends in Bangalore through the Zomato dataset, using Python, pandas, and data visualizations.

Project Overview
This project explores patterns in Zomato’s Bangalore restaurant data to answer key business questions on food preferences, user ratings, spending trends, and service choices. Insights are presented with clear, high-quality visualizations.

Dataset
Source: Zomato Bangalore Dataset (CSV)

Content: Restaurant names, ratings, votes, services (online order/table booking), cuisine, location, and cost data.

Installation
Clone or Download the repository and the dataset.

Install Dependencies:

text
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn
Open the Zomato_Data_Analysis.ipynb notebook in Jupyter Notebook or Google Colab.

Usage
Place the CSV file in the expected working directory (as referenced in the notebook).

Run each cell sequentially to load, clean, and analyze the data.

View the plots and insights in the notebook output cells.

Features and Steps
Data Cleaning: Handles missing values, preprocesses the dataset for analysis.

Votes Analysis: Identifies restaurants with the most and least customer engagement.

Online Order Patterns: Visualizes which restaurants support online ordering.

Ratings Distribution: Plots histograms and countplots to uncover rating trends.

Pricing Insights: Examines cost distributions and spending trends.

Heatmap Analysis: Uses pivot tables and heatmaps to find service and listing correlations.

Results
Highlights top and bottom restaurants by votes and ratings.

Shows city-wide preferences for online ordering and table bookings.

Visualizes pricing segmentation and cuisine popularity.

Supports business and culinary decision-making with data-backed insights.

Structure
Zomato_Data_Analysis.ipynb: Jupyter notebook with code and outputs.

Zomato-data-.csv: Raw data (not included, source must be credited if distributed).

Dependencies
Python 3.7+

pandas

numpy

matplotlib

seaborn

Credits
Dataset: Zomato Bangalore (available on Kaggle)

Libraries: pandas, matplotlib, seaborn, numpy

For questions or feedback, open an issue in this repository or contact the maintainer.

